## Colorado
#### 2021-11-21

Goose has an official live album called “2021.11.21 Denver, CO” that I’m going to listen to now. If I end up liking Goose, it’ll be fun to go back to these first impressions at some point in the future.

#### Song one: Earthling or Alien?
Straight away I notice the guitar riff and the bass groove. They sound nice together. It’s a laid back song. But it’s 15 minutes! I wonder how they’ll pivot between the standard bits, solos, and jams.

There’s a long solo in the beginning, which is my first exposure to how well they play their instruments. Sounds good. And a bit later I hear the synth take the lead, which is notable and fun. Halfway through the song, just after the synth solo, the song stops. Huh!

And now they’re back at it with their very mellow and easy to digest riff. 

But they just stopped again.
  
And now they’re back at it again. So I suspect they’re going to close out the song with a jam. Oh, audience participation with clapping. And here we go, a chance to see how they shine as improvisers. One person calls out to another person and asks them to take a solo, which must mean that’s not usually how it’s done. A fun way to start a concert. Feels loose and free.

(Many minutes later)

Ok, that jam had a pretty fun peak. And then they land the plane. Well done, Goose. Nice and smooth. (I hear something that sounds like booing in the audience, but I assume it’s people screaming “Goooooooose” or something?)

#### Song two: Echo of a Rose
Another super mellow song. It feels a little like Sublime, reggae, or Jack Johnson. I particularly like the wan-wah that one of the guitars is playing around with. And is this a different singer?

(Many minutes later)

I’m really enjoying this solo/jam. Not sure how much is improvised and how much is standard. But I’m enjoying the wailing guitar and the chord progressions. Gives me the same feeling of Turn the Page or Black in that there’s a very emotional peak. I like emotional peaks like these. It feels bittersweet and poignant. 

I’m going to look this song up later to see if it’s a fan favourite.

### Song three: All I Need
This song just started and I like it fine. But apparently it’s going to be a 19 minute long one. Will be interesting to see where they go with all that time.

I’m liking the keyboards at the beginning of this song.

And at about 9:30 I’m quite enjoying the groove they’ve found themselves in. As usual, I don’t know if this is an improved section or if it’s part of how the song always works. But either way, it’s moody and I enjoy it.

Oh, at about 12 minutes things are getting spooky and dramatic. They even did a little wind chime effect twice, which helps the jam go subterranean. That’s a fun dynamic shift.

I’m really enjoying the outro. It’s reminding me of a song I love, but I can’t put my finger on exactly which one it is. I might be thinking of the end of Sir Psycho Sexy, by the Red Hot Chilli Peppers? Gosh, I think I am. Huh!

Then at 17:15 the guitar slices in and goes nuts. I’m not sure if I like that solo placement there. I was really into the groove and this feels a bit too much on top. But we’ll see how I feel in the future, eh?

### Song four: Indian River

I thought this one was fine. Didn’t love it, then it was over.

### Song five: Wysteria Lane

Wow, they appear to be using autotune? Song seems good. I like it.

I’m really enjoying this song. It’s funny trying to listen to a jam band for the first time, because the random noodling all seems sort of silly at first. But I know that as I listen to their shows more, I’ll appreciate the details and nuances more.

For now, it sounds like a generic riff-fest. I like it, but it also seems endless. I do see what people are saying about how Goose is getting more inspiration from contemporary music. I am definitely hearing glimmers of it here. Grateful Dead leaned on a lot of bluegrass stuff, Phish leans on a bunch of prog rock stuff, and Goose leans on a lot of alternative and contemporary stuff.

Oo, I quite like the end of the song. It reminds me of Talking Heads. And I continue to be impressed by the bassist.

### Song six: Rockdale

I’m enjoying this one fine. A solid B. I am finding myself using whiteboard markers as drumsticks at my desk, so that’s probably a good sign. A good mid-tempo song, and now they’re exploring a jam. We’ll see where it goes!  

That was pretty fun. I wouldn’t have expected it as a closer for the first set, but ok! Now we’re onto set two, which leads with some synth washes.

### Song seven: Slow Ready
Whoa, they hit a particular note that reminded me of a song I know. Is it Slow Magic? Washed Out? Little Dragon? Ugh, it’s on the tip of my tongue! But yeah, this song is a mood. Slow and synth-washy.

Oh my, at the end of the song, everyone bursts out into what sound like boos. But I’m going to assume they’re saying “goooooooose” again. Is this a thing in the Goose fanbase?

### Looking up booing

I went to Reddit and looked for “Goose.” Ended up on a lot of birding sites. Finally found GooseTheBand, and did a search for “boo” which gave me these responses:

* New To Goose? Start Here (updated)
* I get so much joy from the Goose call… GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOSSSSSSSSSSEEEEEEEE!!!!!!!!!!
* New To Goose? Start Here.

(Side note: Primus fans love to say “Primus Sucks” so this might be a similar thing. Also, in Pearl Jam concerts they have a bandmate named Boom Gasper, and when he does solos everyone yells Boooooooooooooooooom. I think it bothers Eddie Vedder because he always makes a point to say it was Boom Gasper. I think he’s concerned that people will think they’re boos :)

Yup! I looked it up and the “goose call” is a thing. I found an amazing embroidered patch that pays homage to it: [https://www.etsy.com/listing/1108496464/goose-the-band-cooked-goooooose?ref=shop\_home\_active\_2&frs=1&sts=1][1]

### Slow Ready would like a word

Holy cow, I was going to say “I love the intro to whatever the next song is” but it turns out it’s Slow Ready with an intense build. It’s some of my favourite music from the entire show so far. I sense a little bit of LCD Soundsystem because of the synth, a little bit of the solo at the end of Sultans of Swing because of the guitar, and again with the great bass. Beautiful.

Might be my favourite song, we’ll see how things develop.

### Song eight: The Old Man’s Boat

I was busy reading up on Goose so I didn’t really notice how this song got started but now we’re four minutes in and there’s a bunch of guitar herring. I like it, seems bluesy and fun.

### Song nine: Creatures

Now things are just playing in the background, so I’m not noticing as many details. I noticed that start was interesting, and they got a little bit sloppy about five minutes in. I like the disco-style groove, and I continue to be surprised by the autotune throughout the show.

### Song ten: Tumble

Tumble seems fun. I like how Goose takes what feels like pretty simple riffs/progressions and plays off of them.

### Song eleven: Nights in White Satin

Moody and slow, interesting. I like this one a lot.

### Song twelve: White Lights

More disco beats and more autotune. It’s fascinating seeing them embrace electronic music and vibes this much. If this were a Phish concert, a lot of these touches would be played for laughs. This feels more like Fleet Foxes or Vampire Weekend, who are earnestly trying to make something beautiful. If Phish did it, no offence to Phish, they’d either make it super dad rock smaltzy, buried in inscrutable Gamehendge mythology, or purposely make something silly, like when they covered The Big Gig in the Sky or Getting Jiggy Wit It (or a million other examples).
  
This song and concert is smooth and earnest. Less of a sense of a bunch of jokers writing crazy lyrics after an acid trip and more of a sense of “Hi. I went to art school and studied music. I have a wide range of interests. Here’s my pretty song. I hope you enjoy it. I hope you have a good time.”

(Time passes)

Oh my, this song really takes off, doesn’t it?

(Time passes)  
  
And it makes sense that it ended the second set.

### Encore: Magic Carpet Ride

Aw, that’s cute.

(time passes)

Wow, that’s a fun face-melting guitar solo.



















[1]:	https://www.etsy.com/listing/1108496464/goose-the-band-cooked-goooooose?ref=shop_home_active_2&frs=1&sts=1