## The Last Night I Was That Bad

It was late summer, 1994. A few months earlier, I had been sent from my leafy suburb in Maryland to the middle of the desert in Eastern Oregon. It was referred to as the “sunken forest” because somewhere in the middle of nowhere, the plates of the earth had leaned together just barely enough to make a tiny forest. It was probably half an acre and you could spot the trees there from a mile away.

We hiked out from the sunken forest at a pace of exactly ten miles a day. They had loaded up big multi-gallon canisters of water and stopped every ten miles to hide the water behind boulders. That way the only way out of the desert was to hike ten miles, find the water, set up camp, and do it all again. Some of the kids resisted the hiking, but when faced with a choice between hiking or running out of water, they picked hiking. Even without their smokes or drugs. High desert sun has a way of doing that to you.

Now it was two months later, and my group had been through a lot. The outdoor program started with all that desert hiking, but then we had gone on to learn rock climbing, mountaineering, mountain biking, white water rafting, and tons of camping. Halfway through the program, our families had flown in to have some counselling sessions with us, but that was a distant memory. Now we were almost done with our experience and looking forward to our freedom. Lots of conversations started with “what’s the first food you’re going to eat when you’re out of here?” and then lots of debate.

I had a different schedule from the rest of my group. While everyone else had a few more days to go, I was going to fly to Portland, Maine for a school interview early the next morning. We were staying in a campground about five or ten miles from downtown Bend, Oregon. We wound down like we always did. Dinner, cleanup, talking around the fire, everyone climbing into their tents. But for some reason, and somehow, I decided I was going to break out of camp and have a night on the town.

I had done dumb kid stuff before, of course. But I still can’t figure out how or why I left camp. First, it was extremely risky. Even something simple like coming out of your tent meant a loud zrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrriiiptt sound that everyone could hear. And then people would expect you to be gone for a few minutes in the bathroom before zrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrriiiptt closing up your tent again when you returned. We were sleeping closely enough to each other to hear every groan, every fluffed pillow, every burp. You could hear the click and gross mouth sounds of someone putting in their retainer for the night. You could hear them crunching down the gravel to go to the bathroom, then you’d hear them urinating, then you’d hear them flush, then you’d hear them wash their hands or not, then crunch crunch crunch, then a grunt to get into the tent, then zrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrriiiptt, then they’d get into their sleeping bag. Then you’d hear them breathe.

And yet, somehow I left camp for the entire night. I don’t remember how I did it. But I remember I went with a friend. I remember hiking a lot of the way, and then taking a taxi the rest of the way with whatever damp dollars I had stuffed into my sock and sweated on. I remember going to all-night diners and leaving without paying. I remember walking and talking as it hit 2am, 3am, 4am. I remember doing the math at one point and realising that we couldn’t actually get back in time. I was going to be woken up for my flight at 6am, which was only 45 minutes away. But we were still ten minutes from camp. There was no way to get back in time.

I remember desperately trying to come up with a plan, and then something working. I don’t remember what. Did we hitchhike successfully? Did we beg a taxi to drive us without paying? I can’t remember, but I remember the sun coming up and thinking there was no way I was going to get away with it. I was going to get caught by the camp, which meant my school interview was at risk. I had been begging my parents to let me come home. I told them I had changed. I told them I wasn’t a bad kid anymore. I didn’t want any more time in the desert. I wanted to be a normal 14 year old kid again, in my own hometown. I wanted my friends back. I wanted to be in my own bed. I could do it. I could stop being a fuckup.

Except here I was, about to get caught. I was about to completely obliterate any chance I had to be trusted. Again. I couldn’t believe how well it worked out, though. It was like the end of Ferris Beuller’s Day Off. I somehow — somehow! — snuck back into camp with my friend in time. Crunch, crunch, crunch down the path. SqueakSLAM as we went into the bathroom area. Toilet sounds. A flush. Crunch, crunch, crunch at 5:45am to my tent. zrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrriiiptt open, and zrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrriiiptt closed. I did my best to climb in. I remember not daring to switch into pyjamas, so I just lay there in my clothes staring at the dull gray tent as the sun came up. About five minutes later, I heard a groggy voice from a counsellor’s tent.

“Jon? Are you up? Your taxi will be here soon.”

“Mmpgh” I said. I rustled around to pretend I was getting out of my pajamas, then had breakfast wearing the same clothes as the day before. My taxi came, I said goodbye to everyone, and I began my new life.



