## The First Friend I Made

My family moved from Massachusetts to Maryland when I was five. I don’t have any memories from life before Maryland, so just as my memory was beginning to transcribe experiences, my family was beginning a new life as well.

We were invited to a family’s house about five minutes away, and spent several dinners there. Over the years, we came over for birthday parties, time in their pool, and after-school hangouts. They had a little creek that ran across the street from their house, and one day I fell in and had trouble climbing back out.

There were two kids, a younger boy named DJ and his older sister. I was friends with DJ but we pretty quickly grew apart. Somewhat awkwardly, our parents thought it would be a good idea for me to hang out at their place after school once a week for a few months. But he ran in a different crew than I did, so it ended up being him with his cool friends plus me. They were nice to me, but it didn’t really make sense. We didn’t hang out in school anymore, so we were mostly just polite in each other’s direction.

A few years ago I saw an image from a high school reunion. There was Sarah, there was Benji, there was Kristy. And oh, also, there was DJ. He had a big smile, and it reminded me of how charming he was back in the day. I thought back to sleepover parties at his dad’s new apartment. I remember Michael J Fox was on the cover of Playgirl magazine, which means it was the September of 1987. I thought back to him talking about Howard the Duck. I thought back to the pool party we had almost missed, and how I remember his mom calling to ask if we had meant to miss it. Nope, we had just forgotten.

I thought back to the time I was at his house and made a joke about laughing so hard that I thought I might pee the bed, and how his sister suddenly turned very serious. She thought I was actually going to pee on her bed, even when I explained that I wouldn’t. I thought back to his basement, playing chess, watching Ghostbusters, and playing with dolls called Glo Worms. I remember Couch Potatoes. And I remember when he forced me to do things I didn’t want to do. “Wait a second,” I thought. “He molested me?” I thought about it. Yeah, I guess he did, didn’t he?

DJ was pretty excited to tell me about his dad’s Playboy magazines around the time I first met him. I don’t think we looked at them together, but he described them and clearly seemed taken by them. In hindsight, it makes sense that the magazines were a central focus in his mind around that time, because he took me into his closet and wanted me to get naked with him. He wanted us to rub our penises together, but I didn’t. It started like any other game, but when I said I didn’t like the game anymore, he persisted.

I don’t remember him physically holding me in the closet, or us doing the game more than two or three times. But I remember my resistance and the near-drunk way he wanted to keep trying it even as my body froze and my mind floated away. I didn’t let him do it, but I didn’t stop him either. It was a “come on, just do this” followed by a “no” sort of vibe. I don’t remember much, but I do remember not liking it.

And piecing things together later, I guess that means the original, um, “event” happened in 1985. But then we were friends for five years after that, all through elementary school. That time hanging out with his cool friends was probably in fifth grade. After that, I think we went to different schools. I vaguely remember him coming over to the house once and thinking he wasn’t particularly smart. 

There’s nothing wrong with not being particularly smart, of course. But I remember him saying something that made me squint and realise “oh wait, maybe the lights aren’t really on in there.” It reminded me of the time another boy looked at a clock with big hand pointing at the 12 and little hand pointing at the 3 (3:00) and said it was 3:12. Since the big hand was pointing to the 12. I remember thinking “huh.”

But that means the sleepover parties at his dad’s house, the time I fell in the creek, the time on his sister’s bed, all of that happened later. And he didn’t try to do anything with me anymore. I don’t know if I was giving him a second chance or if I just didn’t know what he did was bad. Or maybe I just needed friends. I remember playing chess with him, playing Nintendo, reading books. I remember years later borrowing his pool when I was getting my SCUBA certification. I remember his mom would drive me home and we’d both play in the back of the car, quickly making games in the few minutes until I was back in my driveway and my mom was waiting inside.

The more I think about it, the more memories emerge. He was one of my three closest friends, and he touched me in ways he knew I didn’t want, knew I didn’t like. I remember him saying once that we could watch TV once he could touch my penis in the closet again. And I think I must have let him?

He was the first friend I made. I didn’t really feel part of his friend group later, and he introduced himself to me by making me feel supremely awkward and dirty. But still, I can think of a lot of memories at his house. So that must have meant I didn’t love the situation but I got enough out of it to keep going back.

No one even thinks they were a bully, and even if they are called one they say the person deserved it, or didn’t mind. But I’m comfortable admitting to myself that despite bullies causing me trouble, despite getting beat up, despite always being in trouble with the principal, despite being in the lower castes of the elementary school social system, there was one person I could make fun of. We called him “fat” in a not-very-clever commentary on his appearance. (He was actually a perfectly normally-sized kid) We would sing “Chuck-E-Cheeses, where fat can be a kid.” And when I say “we” maybe it was just me? I don’t recall the details, but I was definitely rude to him and it felt good.

It did. I liked the idea that I could attack someone and get away with it. Wouldn’t you feel a secret thrill if you had a special key that let you open any door? We want to pretend we wouldn’t use the key, because we tell ourselves story of being better than that. Upstanding members of society. So I’ll break the ice and admit that later on I did shoplift things. Lots of things. If I had a key that let me into a room where I wasn’t allowed, I would have taken it. And to be clear, you would too. There was something freeing about admitting that I was a bad kid, and admitting it now. Because humans aren’t as good as we want to believe. And even if you have no faith in humanity, you typically have faith in yourself. But I didn’t. Not then, anyway.

So when I called David by his nickname, he’d look sad and it would feel like I was a fighter pilot in World War 2 who just scored a direct hit on the bad guys. He wouldn’t put up much of a fight. He wouldn’t tell me to stop, but I knew it hurt his feelings. And something about making him hurt, and getting away with it, felt good. Do you think I’m a monster? Maybe I am, but you’ve done the same. It’s just not something we like to admit to ourselves.

I do remember asking David one day about going to DJ’s house. And I remember he got a certain look on his face. And I think I hinted at the unwelcome invitations into DJ’s closet to be touched in ways we didn’t ask for. I remember sensing that he had had the same experience with DJ. We might have talked about the Playboys and the vibe at the house. I left the conversation thinking the closet visits were probably still happening to DJ. It felt like outrunning a bear with a friend. You don’t need to outrun the bear, you only need to outrun your friend. I think David was fed to the bear while my friendship with him was more or less normal for several years.

I made another friend, this one just up the street from me. His name was Daniel and we hung out much more than I ever did with DJ. We explored the internet together. We went to DC together on the subway. I was probably at his house most days of the week, and we had sleepover parties all the time. I preferred going to his dad’s place, because his dad was a cool physiatrist in a cool neighbourhood and he was always kind to me.

Daniel liked asking me questions about puberty. He knew I had reached puberty before him, and he knew I had more insights into the ways our bodies were changing, relationships, and sex. One night we were trying to get to sleep on a bunk bed and he asked me questions about sex. But it never felt like he was being inappropriate or asking me to do anything I didn’t want to do. He was just curious, and I treated him like a kid brother, gamely answering all his questions.

Later I found out that Daniel was gay. That explains some of the ways he acted around, and some of the questions he had. And also a lot of his anxiety around sexuality and what it might have meant for him growing up in the 80s. Although a quick internet search tells me now that he appears to be married to a woman in California, so who knows?

All of us were kids trying to figure out what it meant to be a kid. To grow up. To be a boy. To live in the strange world of Bethesda, right near the nation’s capital, as the world worked through through nuclear war threats, the collapse of the USSR, huge economic stock downturns, rampant inflation, the crack and AIDS crises, and racial reckonings. It was an interesting time to grow up, and all of us held a different perspective as it was all happening around us. To us.

